Question:

If songs.db contains the top 100 songs of one listener from 2018,
how would you characterize their audio aura?

My Answer:

To determine the audio aura of a user based on the given metrics,
some reference baseline values for the auras/moods that relate to different
song metrics would need to be determined, e.g. through research or user surveys.
This could be asking a diverse set of reference users what aura they categorize themselves in,
or asking questions to determine their aura then getting the average metrics of their top songs,
and then getting the overall average for all reference users as the baseline.
If possible, weights could also be assigned to different metrics in terms of how important
they are to determining the mood.

Once the reference baseline ranges are determined for the different auras,
we could get the average for each metric of the current user's top 100 songs
then find which aura the user's top song average metrics are most similar to.
This could be done by representing the metric values as a set of coordinates
for a "point" in some n-dimensional space and calculating which reference aura "point"
has the shortest overall distance to the current user's top songs metrics "point".

-------------------------------

Question:

Hypothesize about why the way you’ve calculated this aura might not be very representative of the listener.
What better ways of calculating this aura would you propose?

Answer:

The method I suggested is based on a limited set of metrics which might not tell the full story
about the aura of an individual song, e.g. the metrics dont take into account details such as
the lyrics which can also define if a song is happy, sad etc but the metrics could be the same or similar.
So using the metrics to directly relate to aura could be innacurate as it doesnt account for all the details
and not represent the user.

Another aspect that consider is that the baselines for the moods are determined based on the average opinions of different people,
which might not represent the current user accurately, so the comparison might be done on innacurate baselines.

Since we are taking the average of all the song metrics, if some songs have significantly higher metrics than others
then they can skew the averages and some details of the user preferences could be lost as part of this
and the average might not be representative.

Alternative ways of calculating the aura could be:
- Assigning aura scores to each song individually then counting how many times each aura is the most signifciant song aura,
  then sorting the auras where the one with the majority of times as most significant aura is the most likely user aura
- Assigning aura scores to each song individually then treating them like votes and using voting algorithms like Tideman
  to determine what is the "winner" aura
- Increasing the number of metrics used to calculate the aura, hoping this would provide more details to consider about a user
